Hello there, my name is Sacha Guddoy.
I'm the Lead Front-end Engineer at Grabyo.
Today, I'm going to be talking about accuracy
and synchronization in HTML media elements, our use cases,
and some of the challenges that we've faced.
slide-2
Firstly, let me tell you a bit about Grabyo.
7-p
Grabyo is a SaaS platform
for broadcast media production.
It's aimed at commercial broadcasters.
10-p
We use web and cloud-based technologies to bring
remote distributed capabilities to broadcast workflows.
12-p
Some of our offerings include live video production,
clipping from live streams,
non-linear editing and publishing creative media
to various end points, for example,
social media or livestream.
slide-3
Firstly, I'm going to talk about accuracy
in HTML media APIs.
19-p
A common technique in media production workflows
is to create a lower resolution, low bit rate draft version
of your media.
slide-4
And when you're working on that media,
when you're making edits and such,
that's what you'll be looking at.
25-p
Then when you've finished making your edits,
you will export it to some more powerful machine,
or maybe your own machine,
will use a lot of resources to go and render
the final high quality version
from the original source media.
31-p
A common pattern that we use is for users
to select their in and out points in a video
in the web browser,
and then we'll send that off to another service
which could be in the cloud,
and then we'll use that to process the final version
of the media from the high quality source media.
slide-5
One of the issues that we faced with this kind of workflow
is that timestamps that you get from media elements
in the web are just not accurate enough.
They won't necessarily represent the same frame of the video
when another application loads up that same timestamp.
43-p
So what that means is that when you've exported your video,
you play it back and the start and the end
can be one frame off, which is not very good.
46-p
In professional workflows, it's really important
to be frame accurate.
And it can be very noticeable in a lot of situations.
49-p
The most common way of getting the time that the user
is at, in the video, is using the currentTime property
of the HTMLVideoElement interface.
52-p
The problem with this is that it's not very precise.
It's measured in seconds
and it only gives you two decimals of precision.
So you can only be accurate to 100th of a second.
56-p
In a 60 FPS video,
a single frame only lasts for about 16 milliseconds.
So your timestamp,
which is only accurate to a hundredth of a second,
isn't going to be accurate enough to convey
that exact frame.
62-p
Different video rendering tools might have
different interpretations of exactly what that time is.
slide-6
The next point is about synchronization with the DOM.
65-p
Another common use case for us is to manipulate and monitor
media in real time using DOM interfaces,
for example, controlling state of the playback,
controlling playback position,
monitoring the audio levels,
analyzing or manipulating video or audio,
displaying overlays,
and synchronizing different pieces of media together.
slide-7
In these scenarios, it's really important for the DOM
to reflect the current state of media
as accurately as possible.
76-p
Typically, these elements in the DOM would be updated
based on the media.
78-p
There's two ways that you can do that.
You can either use event listeners
or you can use requestAnimationFrame.
Already there is an inherent level of de-synchronization
because the DOM and the media element are not running
in the same thread.
The media element is playing in its own thread,
but the updates to the DOM, they rely on the main UI thread,
which means that any user interaction
or anything else running in that DOM thread can easily block
your updates, which means that your DOM representation
of what's happening in the media could potentially
be lagging behind.
91-p
Furthermore, this can just be expensive.
If you are updating your DOM 60 times per second,
because your audio level, for example,
is changing 60 times a second,
then that is taxing on the UI thread
and degrades the user experience.
slide-8
The next point is on codecs.
98-p
All major browsers ship with a range of video codecs.
Expansion of codec support and lower level access
to the decoding pipeline could enable new features.
101-p
For example, you could use intra-frame coding
to improve seeking performance.
You could extract thumbnails faster than real time.
You could decode and store specific time ranges
for fast referencing, for example,
in a nonlinear editing scenario.
107-p
WebCodecs is the elephant in the room here
that can help solve a lot of the issues by giving us
lower level access to that decoding pipeline,
which is something I'm very excited about.
Obviously the browser support at the moment,
what's this, October 2021, is not the greatest.
slide-9
The next part I want to talk about is multi-threading.
114-p
So it's often necessary to perform media operations
on the same thread as the UI handlers,
so for example, rendering a video onto a canvas.
This is not particularly desirable,
because these tasks can be really resource intensive
and run very frequently, blocking the UI thread,
degrading performance and the user experience.
121-p
If you're painting a video to a canvas,
that's probably going to be running
on every requestAnimationFrame.
124-p
We'll see the conventional solutions
to this last problem is to use multi-threading,
i.e., web workers
and you do your intensive thread in that web worker.
So there is an off-screen canvas interface,
and that would allow WebGL to render to a canvas
within the scope of a worker.
131-p
But there isn't an equivalent API for video.
Video cannot be used in the worker.
It cannot be accessed.
134-p
This is problematic because then your video to canvas
rendering pipeline has to be in the DOM thread.
It can't live in a worker by itself.
slide-10
So that's all I have for you on this topic.
I hope that was enlightening in terms of some
of the use cases and issues that we were facing.
And I'm looking forward to hearing
your questions and feedback.
Thanks very much. Take care.